Why don't we just say it for the take?
What is it?
What's the title of the book?
The Reflections I'm not seeing on it.
Okay.
That and another book called Types of Shape.
That's just for my take, McCoy, which didn't hear what the book was.
There's another book called Types of Shape, which you want.
Shape of Hope.
And your breath did in subsequent expansion.
But I was very grateful to bring this back because it had...
never appeared in paper, although it appeared in the whole issue of magazine poetry back in the 1970s.
So that's a 30-year-old book which is now just being issued in paper, is that right?
A few years ago, yes.
That's pretty interesting.
You say it's fascinating.
Did you have a question?
Well, it's fascinating.
to me in my own work with this idea of the code name.
And the work that I'm looking at for my own research, a lot of the women I'm looking at were nationalist militant women in the revolution who used nom de guerre.
Yeah.
And then they used their nom de guerre.
That's nom de guerre.
Yes.
And I thought that was a really interesting aspect of your book that made it to my own.
Oh, yes.
Amen.
There's some... Is that your credit?
Yes.
Would you like me to sign it to you?
Oh, sure.
I'd like that.
There are some... some tiny bits of French influence on that, certainly.
And the chars, I'll tell you, deep notes.
Something that I've read.
Long, long, long talk about it.
Do you have it?
I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, you can get back in and more of those things.
Look, this is a totally poetic fiction, because it's not about... Did you say that you read me in production?
Yes, that's what I mean.
You said the spooky thing about being hard to find.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
One of the other things that I thought was really interesting about it was the way that you shared it as you were writing it and sent it.
It was very important for me at the time.
I started writing it when I was feeling very long for a number of reasons.
That's why it starts out after that.
And I just wanted to get myself to write, and I've never been able to write every day, and I've never been able to keep a journal longer than three days.
And this was a sort of nutty way of doing that.
You know, it's a book I'm very fond of.
Tell me the title again.
Reflection.
Reflections on Espionage.
And what's significant about the title?
It's one of the book's themes.
[Mumbling.]
It's a long poem.
You might find it most...
I was grateful to the press for Graham for doing a whole sequence.
When I did come back, Ellen Graham persuaded me to do what was, I suppose, the most successful book financially in the press, which is book of Ron's Reason, which is
It's a little handbook of poetic forms and devices, not only English poetry that includes other languages.
The one difference being that each one of them is illustrated.
by an example that I had written, and each example explains itself.
So that the one that explains how a villanelle works is a villain.
The one that explains how a sestino works is a sestino.
A short passage of lists is a ray word.
And it's been around
three editions and many, many great things for 25 years.
And it was Alan Graham's idea for me to do it.
A trade press is not likely to do something.
No, no, no.
It's because it's an educational book.
I mean, it's a text.
Right.
It was sold.
You see, the university professors do have texts for it.
They go to MLA meetings and sell books and things like that.
So you said that was your most successful Gale book, right?
Yes, it sold most copies over all those years.
And how about something like this?
I don't think that was funny.
But it's probably one of the proudest.
I don't think when it was published they marked it.
I'm just simply glad to get it in paper, because course copies were very hard for them to wear.
Is there a temptation when they bring it back to go back and redo it?
to read to it, or does it speak from time to time that it was written?
No, no, no.
I added up.
What I did was to... Do I jump in a... Yeah, I don't mind.
Thank you.
No, it was simply shot from the original book.
But you didn't write any... Oh, yes, yes, yes.
The text was shot from the original book.
I see, but I mean, you didn't change the poem at all.
No.
That's what I meant.
No, but I added...
No.
Oh, there's some apparatus.
There was apparatus to begin with, and I added the apparatus.
So they reset the apparatus.
And then there was an explanatory introduction of some length, which I wanted.
And they did that.
I'm going to give you a pen so you can inscribe this to this young lady.
She's Caroline.
Yes.
C-A-R-O-L-I-N-E, right?
The real way.
Is there anything, any burning questions?
I mean, I've pretty much covered that.
Thank you so much.
Oh, my pleasure.
I'm very lucky to have this here.
Well, this must be fascinating for you.
Because you're getting the stuff from, you know, you're getting the stuff that you would fully have gathered.
over 20 years or more of being in the profession and picking it off.
I want her to come to as many of these interviews as she can take.
I want her to be involved in the project.
I wanted to say, if I say it in that literature, again, to be candid, I did feel that after Ellen Graham left,
the editors of literature went into a terrible decorum.
And it lasted for quite a while.
And they, of course, did wonderful other things in art, etc.
But this was one of the other series, but this was not just... And now, there's a new editor in literature named John Kulka.
K-U-L-K-A.
So you're the second person now to tell you.
He, I think, the world...
He's incredibly impressive, and he's going to bring back the reputation that Neil Press had in the literature, certainly.
Isn't this something, it's almost quaint, isn't it, in the 21st century, that we would be interested in the literature?
Literature, the university press.
And I love it, because I just don't know of any other university press where we could say that.
Well, that'd be fine.
Maybe LSU.
Well, Princeton did.
But then its editors went, and the most recent Princeton editors have not been said that Harvard, yes.
There's one literature editor there, but he has particular views on things, and he publishes some marvelous things, but he's not very expensive.
He's got a kind of tunnel vision.
Chicago.
Chicago Press has been
two years intervening between her, and then even you, because it has one of the great literary editors there, and their literary editing is really superb.
Can you think of some of her great tribes that you would particularly like to single out and take note of?
Well, just simply the very, very high quality of everything she did over the years.
I remember, for example, in one case,
a man named Richard Peterson, who teaches at UConn, wrote a splendid book on Ben Jenison.
And he had submitted it to Princeton, and it was accepted by the editor at Princeton, and finally, in the final layer of, at University Press, is the final layer of acceptance.
It isn't up to the editor either.
Here she gets the wedding.
It's got to be the publication board.
And one person on the publication board,
I found out later who it was, and I was known to be a jerk anyway.
It absolutely blocked.
It's great.
It absolutely blocked this.
And Peterson was in despair, but he had friends here.
And several of us went to Ellen Graham and said, Ellen, this marvelous book, pick it up first.
From Princeton.
And because she had benefited some of the Princeton vetting already,
and had inside dope on the story of what happened, she was able to accept it here quickly and get it through the publication.
That's good, sir.
Now, did you tell us the name of the author?
Richard Peterson.
That's something you want to check.
Either in the minutes, the editorial... Find out what you can do about that.
See, this is something we can find either in correspondence or in the editorial... Maybe.
Well, maybe, but it's the kind of thing... Check me out.
Okay.
Well, it works.
Because maybe...
That's how I remember the sequence going.
There may be something really cute in it.
But there was something very fortuitous about it.
This is the kind of thing we have a wonderful lead from Mr. Pollard, but now we have to follow this kind of thing.
You have to check me out.
And I could be...
And if you find it, that was our job to document it.
If I'm quite wrong, I'd look to find it.
I think I might be somewhat well.
I love it.
It's one of these stories where something is going to fall into the tracks.
And now you've explored it.
But she was just superb.
So there must be files on Helen Graham.
Yes.
You might even talk to her.
She's still around?
Okay.
Is she here?
She lives out in a retirement center called the Whitney Center.
See, I was almost assuming that she was no longer with us.
No, no.
The last time I saw her, I don't know.
Last year, sometime.
That's great.
I think she is.
But I have nothing but the highest praise for John Coker.
Well, we'll talk to him.
This is going to be a fun little book.
I see stories like this.
I fully believe that a lot of what had been good trade publishing may now have to be done by a non-profit.
You see, trade publishers used to be able to be their profit.
But since they've all been taken over by German conformers, and since the people in the business are bean counters and not editors... You know who used to go into publishing in my generation?
And I would say, in subsequent ones, up until, I would say, well, anyway, through the mid-'80s.
People in college, even in graduate school, who loved literature, who didn't find anything.
They weren't so much committed to teaching, the idea of teaching that they were willing to put up with.
the academic line could be better or worse depending on where you were and what you were doing.
And I thought one of the other good ways to spend time with literature and be able to make a living dealing with writing and reading
Terrible manuscripts you knew you were going to reject before you went through more than ten pages.
It was no worse than reading bad freshman papers.
And so they would then start out.
My older daughter.
She graduated from Yale.
And then she went to New York and had that, the job, I used to call it the job of a girl with postcards.
That is,
She'd be an assistant to an editor.
She'd have the cubicle outside the editor's office.
Wherever they were, wherever they were at, and I had to deal with them, they would always have picture postcards from friends all around the world.
And they would be trainees, and then they would move up and become editors themselves.
One of them had been a student of mine at City University, and had done a very good dissertation, not with me, but with Irving Hound, a colleague, and then couldn't get the job, just signed on to be that girl at Random Books, who's now a very distinguished
You know, reprint editor, you know.
But those things happen all the time.
Some of the people, the editors, the acquisitions editors, were also capable of doing line editing and copy because they were literate.
I like that picture.
Oh, that's taking that again.
My hair a mess.
Okay, do I look at you?
I don't want to pose, and I look awful when I pose.
So you can't make marginal profit, because otherwise you'll be cut away.
But a university press can make marginal profit or simply cover costs and it's doing what it's supposed to be.
And so books that sell for a book, I don't care what it is, a book that can sell 4,000 copies.
That's a big sale for university press.
And hard copies, a big sale for university press.
I'd never get a book published from the trade house.
Well, you see, I'm grateful that some publicists like... Well, for poetry, there's a whole different... But they almost do that as a... They do that as their gesture.
I mean, they don't expect it anymore.
I mean, I think that, I was just delighted that you told me that your person made a profit.
That's amazing.
And are they going to do it again?
Well, they say, makes a profit.
That is, it was blacking on his books.
It can't be profit-making.
That's right.
It's in the black.
It's in the black, yes.
Whatever that means.
It means it can afford to do.
It means they can afford to do wonderful things.
Yes.
That's the point they make.
But then they also have to ask themselves when they do books like the Piper Papers that only sell 8 or 9 hundred copies.
But that's what being in the black is for, to be able to do those things.
That is, black subsidizes rather rare, so it levels up.
That's the way trade publishing used to be, when the margins could be now.
Do you mind if I get back in touch with you at some future point?
Oh, absolutely not.
I mean, there are all sorts of things probably since I was burbling at you.
What I would like to do is because I've just started actually this project basically this week.
Oh, I see.
Why don't you...
Don't hesitate, folks.
I didn't know that.
Did it seem like I'm knowledgeable?
Yeah, I thought I was.
I'm not knowledgeable yet at all.
I will be knowledgeable.
A hundred times more than I know.
Already I think we're developing some strategies for research here.
Are you speaking to anybody who is or has been on the board?
There's one person I really want to talk to.
Okay.
He's a dear friend, colleague of mine, one of the most interesting and distinguished professors of literature in the country I can think of, somebody with great practical, political knowledge, named David Marmich.
Yale has published some superb books of his.
And he has been on the board.
I don't know if he still is.
But he might have some insight.
I mean, the publications.
Just look him up in the last.
You should unquestionably speak to him about the press.
And how do I get in touch with you, 203?
Yeah, an email, john.hollander at yale.edu.
That's the best way.
And you could get in touch with him by david.bromwich.
B-R-O-M-W-I-C-H at Yale.edu.
I love this system.
I would definitely talk to you.
It shall be done.
And then when we get together, a couple months from now, I really know what I'm talking about.
I think I am.
I'm sorry I was so... I'm sorry I was so... No, you weren't.
I was fascinated.
This is my kind of interview, to be honest with you.
But there are undoubtedly things I, you know, most specific things I could tell you.
Well, if you don't mind, I'll ask you to please do.
What I'm going to do now is, now I can check this.
Now I'm going to start transcribing myself.